Music scene in the 70s in Newport. Newport was the place in Wales for music, not Cardiff,
Newport. In Newport we had many different clubs, local bands played in many pubs and
we travelled to different areas for different music. Like in the 70s was the time of festivals,
so we used to travel to different pop festivals, i.e. the Bath Blues Festival which is now
called Glastonbury. We used to travel every year on August Bank holiday to the free festival
in Windsor Park. The bands played there every year for nothing but Hawkewind.
To finance going to these festivals, I worked all through the winter and then soon as the
spring came and the festival started, I would leave my job and then go to a festival. I would
work farms picking potatoes, strawberries to make money come in so I could go to the next festival.
Another way of making money at festivals is we used to stay and clear up and you're going to pay
big money to clear up all the rubbish. This is what most people do. To get to festivals,
if you had the money you'd go on a train or you would go on a coach and if you didn't really have
the money to spare to pay for your transport, we were all clubbed together and hired a van
or with a farm along the motorway.
What festivals were like at that time? Value for money. For £5 you could go the whole weekend
and see all the top bands in the world.
My wife's eyebrows just rose in surprise and you'd have bands come in from all over the planet
for that festival. I actually seen the first live performance of Don McLean, American Pie
in a festival in Lincoln. At the same festival Monty Pythons played the stage.
Surprise visitors for the festival was Raquel Welsh and Princess Anne. They just come around
to have a look. They didn't really integrate into the crowd but they were there. At these festivals
you had venues for famous bands but you also had tents that played music for up and coming bands.
These places, as predicted in the 70s, was all about peace and love.
Not many had any violence. I recall the violent festival at Hyde Park which was a festival,
the Rolling Stones done, but it wasn't the crowd, it was Hell's Angels who were hired
to police the crowd and got drunk and started the violence.
My one regret of the 70s was I was going to see Jimi Hendrix at the Isle of Wights.
Me and a few friends, we paid the money and the guy who was going to drive us up there
never ever turned up with the band.
After his next festival Hendrix was dead.
During the 80s my attendance to festivals dwindled because this time I was married with a family
and the last big festival I attended was the 1986
Glastonbury Festival where I seen the Wailers minus Bob because he had a long day
and a few other things but I noticed the change from when I was younger,
mainly the present and a heavy present of police.
The organisation totally totally different and it was more of a money making scheme than
people getting together for the music.
If you want to note what one of the festivals I went to you can go online and see what the Lincoln
Festival was like in the 1970s. There are many many quotes from what I've been like
and what I told my wife and when she read these quotes she said whatever everything you told me
about this festival is there from other people. We all went to the festivals together.
If you asked an old timer about the NFO in town it was a scrumpy restaurant
pub and we used to meet there and take off from there.
The festival the free festival at Windsor Park was a place that I always met my mate at the main
gates. I would not see him through the year but year after year I would bump into my mate Steve.
Because Newport was such an important place it was also the capital
of Britain for drugs so when we went to festivals and they found out we were from Newport
first words out of most people's mouth is what you sell it.
A friend of mine used to have what would you only describe in them days as an Arab tent
a red and white strike one. I used to point them in that direction and they were always full of people.
you